apt-listchanges(1)                                          apt-listchanges(1)



NAME
       apt-listchanges  —  Show  new changelog entries from Debian package ar‐
       chives


SYNOPSIS
       apt-listchanges [options ... ]  {--apt  | package.deb ... }

DESCRIPTION
       apt-listchanges is a tool to show what has been changed in a  new  ver‐
       sion  of  a  Debian  package,  as  compared  to  the  version currently
       installed on the system.

       It  does  this  by  extracting  the  relevant  entries  from  both  the
       NEWS.Debian    and   changelog[.Debian]   files,   usually   found   in
       /usr/share/doc/package, from Debian package archives.


       Given a set of filenames as arguments (or  read  from  apt  when  using
       --apt), apt-listchanges will scan the files (assumed to be Debian pack‐
       age archives) for the relevant changelog entries, and display them  all
       in a summary, sorted by urgency.


OPTIONS
       --apt
                 Read  filenames  from a specially-formatted pipeline (as pro‐
                 vided by apt), rather than from command line  arguments,  and
                 honor  certain apt-specific options in the config file.  This
                 pipeline must be in "version 2" format, specified in the  apt
                 configuration.


       -v, --verbose
                 Display   additional  (usually  unwanted)  information.   For
                 instance, print a message when a package of the same or older
                 version  is to be installed, or when a package is to be newly
                 installed.


       -f, --frontend
                 Select which frontend to use to display  information  to  the
                 user.  Current frontends include:


                 pager     Uses  your  favorite  pager  to display output.  By
                           default, the PAGER  environment  variable  will  be
                           used.   The  "pager" option may be specified in the
                           configuration file to select a specific  pager  for
                           use with apt-listchanges.


                 browser   Displays  an  HTML-formatted  changelog using a web
                           browser,  with  hyperlinks  for  bugs   and   email
                           addresses.   By  default,  the  BROWSER environment
                           variable will be used.  The "browser" option may be
                           specified  in  the  configuration  file to select a
                           specific browser for use with apt-listchanges.


                 xterm-pager
                           Uses your favorite pager  to  display  output,  but
                           does  so in an xterm (using the x-terminal-emulator
                           alternative) in the background.  This allows you to
                           go on with the upgrade if you like, and continue to
                           browse the changelogs.  You can override the termi‐
                           nal emulator to be used with the "xterm" configura‐
                           tion option.


                 xterm-browser
                           The logical combination of xterm-pager and browser.
                           Only appropriate for text-mode browsers.


                 text      Dumps output to stdout, with no pauses.


                 mail      Sends  mail  to the address specified with --email-
                           address, and does not display changelogs.


                 gtk       Spawns a gtk  window  to  display  the  changelogs.
                           Needs python-glade2, python-gtk2 to be installed.


                 none      Does   nothing.    Can  be  used  to  prevent  apt-
                           listchanges from running  when  configured  to  run
                           automatically from apt.


       --email-address=address
                 In  addition  to  displaying it, mail a copy of the changelog
                 data to  the  specified  address.   To  only  mail  changelog
                 entries, use this option with the special frontend 'mail'.


       -c, --confirm
                 Once  changelogs have been displayed, ask the user whether or
                 not to proceed.  If  the  user  chooses  not  to  proceed,  a
                 nonzero exit status will be returned, and apt will abort.


       -a, --all Rather  than  trying  to  display  changelog entries that are
                 newer than the currently installed version  of  the  package,
                 simply  display all changelog entries for all packages.  This
                 is useful for viewing the entire changelog of a  .deb  before
                 extracting it.


       --save_seen=file
                 This  option  will cause apt-listchanges to keep track of the
                 last version of a package for which changelogs have been dis‐
                 played, to avoid redisplaying the same changelogs in a future
                 invocation.  The database is stored in the named file.  Spec‐
                 ify 'none' to disable this feature.


       --since=version
                 This  option  will  cause apt-listchanges to show the entries
                 later than the specified version. With this option, the  only
                 other argument you can pass is the path to a .deb file.


       --which={news|changelogs|both}
                 This  option  selects whether news (from NEWS.Debian et al.),
                 changelogs (from changelog.Debian et al.) or both  should  be
                 displayed.  The default is to display only news.


       --help    Displays syntax information.


       -h, --headers
                 These  options  will cause apt-listchanges to insert a header
                 before each package's changelog showing the name of the pack‐
                 age,  and  the  names  of the binary packages which are being
                 upgraded (if there is more than one, or it differs  from  the
                 source package name).


       --debug   Display some debugging information


       --profile=name
                 Select  an  option profile.  name corresponds to a section in
                 /etc/apt/listchanges.conf.  The default when invoked from apt
                 is "apt", and "cmdline" otherwise.


       --reverse Show the changelog entries in reverse order.


ENVIRONMENT
       APT_LISTCHANGES_FRONTEND
                 Frontend to use

       BROWSER   Used  by  the  browser  frontend,  should be set to a command
                 expecting a file: URL for an HTML file to display.

FILES
       /etc/apt/listchanges.conf
                 Configuration file.  Most options have the same names as com‐
                 mand-line options, with hyphens translated to underscores.

       Example configuration file

       [cmdline]
       frontend=pager

       [apt]
       frontend=xterm-pager
       email_address=root
       confirm=1

       [custom]
       frontend=browser
       browser=mozilla

                 The  above  configuration file specifies that in command-line
                 mode, the default frontend should be "pager".  In  apt  mode,
                 the xterm-pager frontend is default, a copy of the changelogs
                 (if any) should  be  emailed  to  root,  and  apt-listchanges
                 should  ask  for confirmation.  If apt-listchanges is invoked
                 with --profile=custom, the browser frontend will be used, and
                 invoke mozilla.

       /var/lib/apt/listchanges.db
                 Database used for save-seen

AUTHOR
       apt-listchanges was written by Matt Zimmerman <mdz@debian.org>


SEE ALSO
       apt.conf(5)



                                                            apt-listchanges(1)
