extcheck(1)                                                                                                       extcheck(1)



NAME
       extcheck - A utility to detect jar conflicts

       extcheck detects version conflicts between a target jar file and currently installed extension jar files.

SYNOPSIS
       extcheck [ -verbose ] targetfile.jar


DESCRIPTION
       The  extcheck utility checks a specified Jar file for title and version conflicts with any extensions installed in the
       Java(TM) SDK. Before installing an extension, you can use this utility to see if the same or a more recent version  of
       the extension is already installed.

       The extcheck utility compares the Specification-title and Specification-version headers in the manifest of the target‐
       file.jar file against the corresponding headers in all Jar files currently installed in the extension directory.  (The
       extension  directory  is jre/lib/ext by default.) The extcheck utility compares version numbers in the same way as the
       method java.lang.Package.isCompatibleWith.

       If no conflict is detected, the return code is 0.

       If the manifest of any jar file in the extensions directory has the same Specification-title and the same or  a  newer
       Specification-version  number,  a  non-zero  error code is returned. A non-zero error code is also returned if target‐
       file.jar does not have the Specification-title or Specification-version attributes in its manifest.

OPTIONS
       -verbose
          Lists Jar files in the extension directory as they are checked. Additionally, manifest attributes of the target jar
          file and any conflicting jar files are also reported.

       -Joption
          Pass option to the Java virtual machine, where option is one of the options described on the reference page for the
          java application launcher. For example, -J-Xms48m sets the startup memory to 48 megabytes.

SEE ALSO
       jar

                                                         05 Aug 2006                                              extcheck(1)
