jconsole(1)                                                                                                       jconsole(1)



NAME
       jconsole - Java Monitoring and Management Console

SYNOPSIS
       jconsole [ options ] [ connection ... ]



PARAMETERS
          options
             Options, if used, should follow immediately after the command name.

          connection = pid | host:port | jmxUrl
             pid     Process  ID of a local Java VM. The Java VM must be running with the same user ID as the user ID running
             jconsole. See JMX Monitoring and Management for details.
             host:port   Name of the host system on which the Java VM is running and the port number specified by the  system
             property  com.sun.management.jmxremote.port  when the Java VM was started. See JMX Monitoring and Management for
             details.
             jmxUrl   Address of the JMX agent to be connected to as described in JMXServiceURL.


DESCRIPTION
       The jconsole command launches a graphical console tool that enables you to monitor and manage  Java  applications  and
       virtual machines on a local or remote machine.

       On  Windows,  jconsole  does  not  associate  with a console window. It will, however, display a dialog box with error
       information if the jconsole command fails for some reason.

OPTIONS
          -interval=n
             Set the update interval to n seconds (default is 4 seconds).

          -notile
             Do not tile windows initially (for two or more connections).

          -pluginpath  plugins
             Specify a list of directories or JAR files which are searched for JConsole plugins. The plugins path should con‐
             tain a provider-configuration file named:
                META-INF/services/com.sun.tools.jconsole.JConsolePlugin

          containing  one  line  for  each  plugin  specifying  the  fully qualified class name of the class implementing the
          com.sun.tools.jconsole.JConsolePlugin class.

          -version
             Output version information and exit.

          -help
             Output help message and exit.

          -J<flag>
             Pass <flag> to the Java virtual machine on which jconsole is run.


SEE ALSO
          o Using JConsole

          o Monitoring and Management for Java Platform


                                                         07 Aug 2006                                              jconsole(1)
