KEEPNOTE(1)                                                                                                       KEEPNOTE(1)



NAME
       keepnote - cross-platform note-taking and organization application

SYNOPSIS
       keepnote [ options ] [ notebook ]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the keepnote commands.

       keepnote  is  a  note  taking  application. With KeepNote, you can store your class notes, TODO lists, research notes,
       journal entries, paper outlines, etc in a simple notebook hierarchy with rich-text formatting, images, and more. Using
       full-text search, you can retrieve any note for later reference.

       KeepNote  is  designed to be cross-platform (implemented in Python and PyGTK) and stores your notes in simple and easy
       to manipulate file formats (HTML and XML). Archiving and transferring your notes is as easy as zipping  or  copying  a
       folder.

OPTIONS
       These  programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  A summary
       of options is included below.  For a complete description, see the Info files.

       -h, --help
              Show this help message and exit.

       -c, --cmd
              Treat remaining arguments as a command.

       -l, --list-cmd
              List available commands.

       -i, --info
              Show runtime information.

       --no-gui
              Run in non-gui mode.

       -t, --continue
              Continue to run after command execution.

       --show-errors
              Show errors on console.

       --no-show-errors
              Do not show errors on console.

       --no-default
              Do not open default notebook.

       --newproc
              Start KeepNote in a new process.

       -p PORT, --port=PORT
              Use a specified port for listening to commands.

AUTHOR
       keepnote was written by Matt Rasmussen <rasmus@alum.mit.edu>.

       This manual page was written by Khalid El Fathi <khalid@elfathi.fr>, for the Debian project (and may be used  by  oth‐
       ers).



                                                        March 17, 2012                                            KEEPNOTE(1)
