LSBLK(8)                                            System Administration                                            LSBLK(8)



NAME
       lsblk - list block devices

SYNOPSIS
       lsblk [options]

       lsblk [options] device...

DESCRIPTION
       lsblk  lists  information  about  all or the specified block devices.  The lsblk command reads the sysfs filesystem to
       gather information.

       The command prints all block devices (except RAM disks) in a tree-like format by default.  Use lsblk --help to  get  a
       list of all available columns.

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              List all block devices.

       -b, --bytes
              Print the SIZE column in bytes rather than in human-readable format.

       -d, --nodeps
              Don't  print  device holders or slaves.  For example "lsblk --nodeps /dev/sda" prints information about the sda
              device only.

       -D, --discard
              Print information about the discard (TRIM, UNMAP) capabilities for each device.

       -e, --exclude list
              Exclude the devices specified by a comma-separated list of major device numbers.  Note that RAM disks (major=1)
              are excluded by default.

       -f, --fs
              Output info about filesystems.  This option is equivalent to "-o NAME,FSTYPE,LABEL,MOUNTPOINT".  The authorita‐
              tive information about filesystems and raids is provided by the blkid(8) command.

       -h, --help
              Print a help text and exit.

       -i, --ascii
              Use ASCII characters for tree formatting.

       -m, --perms
              Output info about device owner, group and mode.  This option is equivalent to "-o NAME,SIZE,OWNER,GROUP,MODE".

       -l, --list
              Use the list output format.

       -n, --noheadings
              Do not print a header line.

       -o, --output list
              Specify which output columns to print.  Use --help to get a list of all supported columns.

       -P, --pairs
              Use key="value" output format.

       -r, --raw
              Use the raw output format.

       -t, --topology
              Output info about block device topology.  This option is equivalent  to  "-o  NAME,ALIGNMENT,MIN-IO,OPT-IO,PHY-
              SEC,LOG-SEC,ROTA,SCHED".

NOTES
       For the partitions are some information (e.g. queue attributes) inherited from parental device.

AUTHORS
       Milan Broz <mbroz@redhat.com>
       Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>

SEE ALSO
       findmnt(8), blkid(8), ls(1)

AVAILABILITY
       The  lsblk  command is part of the util-linux package and is available from ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-
       linux/.



util-linux                                                April 2010                                                 LSBLK(8)
